---
layout: post
title: Risky Business!
date: 2021-04-09 
tags: [Risk, Dragos, Risk Management]
---

I created a new course in the first semester of the 2021 academic year. This course was necessary because we created a new Cyber Science major and needed to cover certain topics for ABET accreditation. This course also covered a few requirements (like databases) for our computer science majors. This is the first course all cyber and computer science majors take, along with intro to programming. I may write about this course and process later. I bring it up now because risk and risk management were topics I created lessons for and this got me really interested in this area. 

In the first version of the course I taught these topics using the Army's method ([ATP 5-19](https://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/pdf/web/atp5_19.pdf)) as well as ISC<sup>2</sup>'s method from a typical CISSP course. These methods are very similar when doing qualitative analysis, but of course the Army doesn't talk about things like Annual Loss Expectancy (ALE) much. The students struggled a little to apply this information later in the course and that got me wondering if what and how I was teaching was correct.........and opened the risk management rabbit hole! 

I was attending the SANS ICS summit this year and saw a researcher from [DRAGOS](https://www.dragos.com/) present a talk on a subject in this area. His talk was super interesting (and I love ICS), so I decided to start my exploration with his paper which you can find [here](https://www.dragos.com/blog/industry-news/risky-business-maturing-ot-security-with-executives/). This paper will require several posts because there are so many interesting things. I'm going to start with the introductions and definitions before really getting into the process weeds. 

According to their report, the DRAGOS cyber risk management process is "designed for scalability and can be applied to any environment." This of course taken in context of the report is referring to ICS environments, but I think there is plenty of overlap with traditional IT. NIST defines risk as: 
>"The level of impact on organizational operations, assets, or individuals resulting from the operation of an information system given the potential impact of a threat and the likelihood of that threat occurring."

The DRAGOS report says this definition is to information-centric and defines "industrial cyber risk" as:
>"The potential loss of life, injury, damaged assets, financial loss, and other harm from the failure or mis-operation of digital technologies and communication networks used for operational capabilities."

I find this interesting already! The DRAGOS definition is definitely more specific and tailored to ICS environments, but is it really different? If you pull these statement apart, NIST says "level of impact" and DRAGOS lists those impacts out "potential loss of life, injury, etc.". The physical nature of ICS risk is certainly not possible in a traditional IT network, but they are still just impacts.  The NIST definition then talks about the impact being from "an information system" where DRAGOS says "failure or mis-operation of digital technologies and communication networks." These are simple statements, but there is a lot to unpack. What is an "information system"? [Britannica](https://www.britannica.com/topic/information-system) defines an information system as "an integrated set of components for collecting, storing, and processing data and for providing information, knowledge, and digital products." DRAGOS definitely altered this to some degree by specifying "digital technologies and communication networks." We could argue information systems and digital technologies are somewhat equivalent, but the addition of communication networks is unique. I don't think you could cause an effect from a communication network without the "operation of an information system" though. A malicious packet eventually has to be processed to do anything. Calling networks out separate may be valuable for driving defensive measures though. The biggest difference I see is that NIST brings in threats and likelihood, where DRAGOS does not. DRAGOS just adds the specific caveat about operational capabilities. I really think these definitions are consistent and almost equivalent. DRAGOS just made a specific case of the general NIST framework.

Also, why did an ICS framework only talk about digital technologies? The physical world is analog. That means every signal in the real world starts as an analog signal before A-to-D conversion. This is a discussion/argument for another time! I think I will tackle risk equations next though. 



